Title: There is no talent
Subtitle: ... only passion
Author: Magnus Holm

I'm good with computers. At least compared with others at my age. And believe
me, I've heard it a lot: "Wow, you really have a talent there!" Well,
apparently I *do* have a talent for computers. Or ...?

(snip)

Let's try an experiment: Take all of my knowledge of computer related matters
and divide it by the number of hours I've spent in front of my computer.
That's my "speed" of learning. Then let's do the same with some of my
friends, who are not so "technically inclined". Whose score would be largest?
If I have a talent for computers, it would make sense that I learn it faster
than others, right?

Truth is, I believe I would have scored far lower than "regular" people. I've
spent *tons* of hours in front of my computer and very often I don't learn
anything new or create something different. Heck, I've probably been
"wasting" more hours than many non-technically inclined have spent *in
total*. That doesn't sound like a talent?

I believe that **there is no such thing as talent**.

There is only passion. I have a *passion* for computers, computer science,
programming, creating things, sharing things, helping others and so on.
That's why I'm willing to spend tons of hours on it: Because it's fun;
because I like it; because it's what I want to do. That's why I decided to do
it.

In fact, I remember my first encounter with programming quite well. My father
has always been working with system management, and I never really realized
what he *actually* did on a day-to-day basis. It was all very distant to me.
However, one day he had to write a small application for a client, and he
ended up doing at least some parts of it at home. I didn't quite understand
what the program was supposed to do, or how Dad managed to make it do so, but
I would just sit right next to him and *watch* him work. Not asking questions
or trying to understand anything (he was working after all), but simply
watching was interesting enough for me.

And that's what triggered my passion. Suddenly I started experimenting with
FrontPage, HTML, JavaScript (mostly copy-pasting snippets from other places),
PHP and MySQL. I was constantly looking for a better free hosting service,
and looking all over the internet for PHP scripts I could install and enhance.
How I loved HotScripts! Those were some years full of experimenting and fun,
without a clear understanding about how the technologies worked (both
together and apart).

<hr>

The great thing about starting with this while you're young is that nobody
judges you. You are *supposed* to just having fun, and even if something is
way out of your league they won't burst your bubble, but rather let you
continue experimenting.

As soon as you grow up, people will have expectations about you. "You can't
sing." "You want to paint? Just give up already!" "Skating? Man, you're
wasting your time!" They might not say it like that, but if you're doing
something beyond people's expectation, you will be met by skepticism. People
say that it's good to "try something new", but the moment the "something" is
considered difficult, you're "wasting your time" instead.

You will look around and find other people at your age who are way better
than you at playing guitar, skating or singing. How can you possibly be as
good as them? They must have a talent for it! But in reality, all they did
was starting earlier than you or have been spending more time doing it.

It's so easy to give up; it might almost seem like the whole world is against
you. Well, forget about the rest of the world. There is no such thing as
talent, and in the end you *will* end up as skilled as your "talented" heros.

Simply by following your passion.

*— Magnus Holm*
